README.md, before:

# LogPilot ✨

A personal daily work log dashboard that helps you track what you're doing, enrich your notes with AI, manage TODOs, and stay on top of GitHub activity.

## Features

- **📝 Work Log Editor** — Write markdown with smart bullet points (Tab to indent, Enter to continue). Auto-saves as you type. Toggle between **Edit** and **Preview** modes to see your rendered markdown.
- **🪄 AI Enrichment** — Click **🪄 Enrich** to resolve GitHub links to titles and expand bullet points via the Copilot SDK. Updates the log in-place.
- **📊 Work Log Summary** — Generate AI-powered summaries of your work logs for daily standups or weekly reports.
- **✅ TODO List** — Manual TODOs with inline editing + AI-suggested action items based on your work log.
- **🔀 My PRs** — Live feed of your open PRs (including drafts) in your GitHub org.
- **🔔 Notifications** — Filtered GitHub notifications: reviews requested, mentions, assignments, and activity on your issues/PRs.
- **🚀 Auto-commit & Push** — Hourly auto-commit of your logs and TODOs to a git repo, with push to remote.
- **⚙️ Settings** — Ignore noisy repos from notifications and enrichment.
- **🌗 Dark Mode** — First-class support for both light and dark themes.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20+
- **GitHub Copilot CLI** (`copilot`) — installed and in your PATH. The SDK communicates with the CLI in server mode for AI features.
  - [Installation guide](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/set-up/install-copilot-cli)
  - Requires a GitHub Copilot subscription (free tier available)
- **A GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT)** with read-only scopes — see setup step 2 below.
- **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) — optional, only needed if you skip the PAT step. If present and authenticated, it's used as a fallback for GitHub API access.

## Setup

1. **Fork, then clone your fork:**

   Click **Fork** on GitHub to create your own copy of this repo, then clone it:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/logpilot logpilot
   cd logpilot
   npm install
   ```

   > ⚠️ Do not clone this repo directly — the auto-commit feature pushes to the git remote, and you won't have push access to the original repo.

2. **Create a read-only GitHub PAT:**

   Go to https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new and create a fine-grained token with:
   - **Repository access:** Public repositories (or select specific repos if needed)
   - **Permissions:** `Issues` → Read-only, `Pull requests` → Read-only, `Notifications` → Read-only

   If your org requires SSO, click **Configure SSO** → **Authorize** for your org after creating the token.

3. **Configure environment:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```
   Edit `.env.local`:
   - `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN` — the PAT from step 2
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_ORG` — your GitHub org name (filters notifications, PRs, links)
   - `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR` — (recommended) path to a separate git repo for storing logs/TODOs

4. **Set up a separate repo for your logs (recommended):**

   Without `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR`, logs and TODOs are stored inside the app repo itself (your fork). To keep them separate:

   Create a new private repo on GitHub for your logs, then clone it:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/my-work-logs ~/my-work-logs
   ```

   Set `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR=~/my-work-logs` in `.env.local`. The directory must be a git repo with a remote for auto-push to work.

5. **Run the dashboard:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Open http://localhost:3000

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_ORG` | *(none)* | GitHub org to filter notifications, PRs, and links |
| `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN` | *(falls back to `gh auth token`)* | Read-only GitHub token ([create one](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new) with Issues, PRs, and Notifications read access) |
| `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR` | `./` (app dir) | Path to a git repo where `logs/` and `data/` will be stored |

## How It Works

- **Storage:** Daily logs are saved as `logs/YYYY-MM-DD.md`. Enrichment updates this file in-place. TODOs live in `data/todos.json`. Settings in `data/config.json`.
- **AI Enrichment:** Click **🪄 Enrich** in the log panel. Uses `@github/copilot-sdk` (via Copilot CLI) to resolve GitHub links to issue/PR titles and expand bullet points. Saves the enriched result back to the same file.
- **Auto-commit:** Every hour while the app is running, changes to `logs/` and `data/` are committed and pushed. You can also trigger a manual commit via the 🚀 button.
- **Timezone:** All dates use America/Los_Angeles (Pacific Time). Edit `getTodayDate()` in `src/lib/files.ts` to change.

## Security

- **Read-only GitHub access:** For GitHub API calls (issues, PRs, notifications), use a fine-grained PAT with read-only permissions via `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN`. This ensures the app can never modify your repos.
- **No shell injection:** All subprocess calls use `execFileSync` (array arguments, no shell interpretation).
- **Path traversal protection:** All date parameters are validated against `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
- **Local only:** The app runs on `localhost` with no authentication. Do not expose it to the internet.

## Tech Stack

- Next.js 16 (App Router) + TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS v4
- `@github/copilot-sdk` for AI enrichment
- Space Grotesk + JetBrains Mono fonts
- Octokit for GitHub API
- react-resizable-panels for layout

Commit message:

feat(summary): allow saving summaries to repo
Adds a 'Save to Repo' button in the summary modal that saves the generated markdown to 'summaries/YYYY-MM-DD-slug.md'. Updates git logic to include the summaries directory.

README.md, after:

# LogPilot ✨

A personal daily work log dashboard that helps you track what you're doing, enrich your notes with AI, manage TODOs, and stay on top of GitHub activity.

## Features

- **📝 Work Log Editor** — Write markdown with smart bullet points (Tab to indent, Enter to continue). Auto-saves as you type. Toggle between **Edit** and **Preview** modes to see your rendered markdown.
- **🪄 AI Enrichment** — Click **🪄 Enrich** to resolve GitHub links to titles and expand bullet points via the Copilot SDK. Updates the log in-place.
- **📊 Work Log Summary** — Generate AI-powered summaries of your work logs for daily standups or weekly reports. **Save summaries** directly to your repo in `summaries/` folder.
- **✅ TODO List** — Manual TODOs with inline editing + AI-suggested action items based on your work log.
- **🔀 My PRs** — Live feed of your open PRs (including drafts) in your GitHub org.
- **🔔 Notifications** — Filtered GitHub notifications: reviews requested, mentions, assignments, and activity on your issues/PRs.
- **🚀 Auto-commit & Push** — Hourly auto-commit of your logs and TODOs to a git repo, with push to remote.
- **⚙️ Settings** — Ignore noisy repos from notifications and enrichment.
- **🌗 Dark Mode** — First-class support for both light and dark themes.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20+
- **GitHub Copilot CLI** (`copilot`) — installed and in your PATH. The SDK communicates with the CLI in server mode for AI features.
  - [Installation guide](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/set-up/install-copilot-cli)
  - Requires a GitHub Copilot subscription (free tier available)
- **A GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT)** with read-only scopes — see setup step 2 below.
- **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) — optional, only needed if you skip the PAT step. If present and authenticated, it's used as a fallback for GitHub API access.

## Setup

1. **Fork, then clone your fork:**

   Click **Fork** on GitHub to create your own copy of this repo, then clone it:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/logpilot logpilot
   cd logpilot
   npm install
   ```

   > ⚠️ Do not clone this repo directly — the auto-commit feature pushes to the git remote, and you won't have push access to the original repo.

2. **Create a read-only GitHub PAT:**

   Go to https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new and create a fine-grained token with:
   - **Repository access:** Public repositories (or select specific repos if needed)
   - **Permissions:** `Issues` → Read-only, `Pull requests` → Read-only, `Notifications` → Read-only

   If your org requires SSO, click **Configure SSO** → **Authorize** for your org after creating the token.

3. **Configure environment:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```
   Edit `.env.local`:
   - `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN` — the PAT from step 2
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_ORG` — your GitHub org name (filters notifications, PRs, links)
   - `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR` — (recommended) path to a separate git repo for storing logs/TODOs

4. **Set up a separate repo for your logs (recommended):**

   Without `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR`, logs and TODOs are stored inside the app repo itself (your fork). To keep them separate:

   Create a new private repo on GitHub for your logs, then clone it:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/my-work-logs ~/my-work-logs
   ```

   Set `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR=~/my-work-logs` in `.env.local`. The directory must be a git repo with a remote for auto-push to work.

5. **Run the dashboard:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Open http://localhost:3000

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_ORG` | *(none)* | GitHub org to filter notifications, PRs, and links |
| `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN` | *(falls back to `gh auth token`)* | Read-only GitHub token ([create one](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new) with Issues, PRs, and Notifications read access) |
| `LOGPILOT_DATA_DIR` | `./` (app dir) | Path to a git repo where `logs/` and `data/` will be stored |

## How It Works

- **Storage:** Daily logs are saved as `logs/YYYY-MM-DD.md`. Summaries are saved in `summaries/YYYY-MM-DD-{type}.md`. TODOs live in `data/todos.json`. Settings in `data/config.json`.
- **AI Enrichment:** Click **🪄 Enrich** in the log panel. Uses `@github/copilot-sdk` (via Copilot CLI) to resolve GitHub links to issue/PR titles and expand bullet points. Saves the enriched result back to the same file.
- **Auto-commit:** Every hour while the app is running, changes to `logs/`, `summaries/`, and `data/` are committed and pushed. You can also trigger a manual commit via the 🚀 button.
- **Timezone:** All dates use America/Los_Angeles (Pacific Time). Edit `getTodayDate()` in `src/lib/files.ts` to change.

## Security

- **Read-only GitHub access:** For GitHub API calls (issues, PRs, notifications), use a fine-grained PAT with read-only permissions via `GITHUB_READ_TOKEN`. This ensures the app can never modify your repos.
- **No shell injection:** All subprocess calls use `execFileSync` (array arguments, no shell interpretation).
- **Path traversal protection:** All date parameters are validated against `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
- **Local only:** The app runs on `localhost` with no authentication. Do not expose it to the internet.

## Tech Stack

- Next.js 16 (App Router) + TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS v4
- `@github/copilot-sdk` for AI enrichment
- Space Grotesk + JetBrains Mono fonts
- Octokit for GitHub API
- react-resizable-panels for layout
